<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Mike or Alec or Rufus</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<article id="mike-or-alec-or-rufus">
			<h2>Mike or Alec or Rufus</h2>
			<p>I don’t know whether Jacob Coplin was tall or short. All of him I ever got a look at was his round head—naked scalp and wrinkled face, both of them the color and texture of Manila paper—propped up on white pillows in a big four-poster bed. The rest of him was buried under a thick pile of bedding.</p>
			<p>Besides he and I in the room that first time, there were his wife, a roly-poly woman with lines in a plump white face like scratches in ivory; his daughter Phyllis, a smart little Jewess of the popular-member-of-the-younger-set type; and the maid who had opened the door for me, a big-boned blonde girl in apron and cap.</p>
			<p>I had introduced myself as a representative of the North American Casualty Company’s San Francisco office, which I was in a way. There was no immediate profit in admitting I was a Continental Detective Agency sleuth, just now in the casualty company’s hire, so I held back that part.</p>
			<p>“I want a list of the stuff you lost,” I told Coplin; “but first—”</p>
			<p>“Stuff?” Coplin’s yellow sphere of a skull bobbed of the pillows, and he wailed to the ceiling: “A hundred thousand dollars if a nickel, and he calls it <em>stuff</em>!”</p>
			<p>Mrs. Coplin pushed her husband’s head down on the pillows again with a short-fingered fat hand.</p>
			<p>“Now, Jakie, don’d ged excited,” she soothed him.</p>
			<p>Phylis Coplin’s dark eyes twinkled, and she winked one of them at me.</p>
			<p>The man in bed turned his face to me again, smiled a bit shamefacedly, and chuckled.</p>
			<p>“Well, if you people want to call your seventy-five-thousand-dollar loss stuff, I guess I can stand it for twenty-five thousand.”</p>
			<p>“So it adds up to a hundred thousand?” I asked.</p>
			<p>“Yes. None of them were insured to their full value, and some weren’t insured at all.”</p>
			<p>That was very usual. I don’t remember ever having anybody admit that anything stolen from them was insured to the hilt—always it was half, or, at most, three-quarters covered by the policy.</p>
			<p>“Suppose you tell me exactly what happened,” I suggested, and added, to head off another speech that usually comes: “I know you’ve already told the police the whole thing, but I’ll have to have it from you.”</p>
			<p>“Well, we were getting dressed to go to the Bauers’ last night. I brought my wife’s and daughter’s jewelry—the valuable pieces—home with me from the safe-deposit box. I had just got</p>
			<p>my coat on, and had called to them to hurry up with their dressing when the door-bell rang.”</p>
			<p>“What time was this?”</p>
			<p>“Just about half past eight. I went out of this room into the sitting-room across the passageway, and was putting some cigars in my case when Hilda”—nodding at the blonde maid—"came walking into the room, backwards. I started to ask her if she had gone crazy, walking around backwards, when I saw the robber. He—”</p>
			<p>“Just a moment.” I turned to the maid. "What happened when you answered the bell?"</p>
			<p>“Why, I opened the door, of course, and this man was standing there, and he had a revolver in his hand, and he stuck it against my—my stomach, and pushed me back into the room</p>
			<p>where Mr. Coplin was, and he shot Mr. Coplin, and—”</p>
			<p>“When I saw him and the revolver in his hand,” Coplin took the story away from his servant; “it gave me a fright, sort of, and I let my cigar case slip out of my hand. Trying to catch it again—no sense in ruining good cigars even if you are being robbed—he must have thought I was trying to get a gun or something. Anyway he shot me in the leg. My wife and Phyllis came running in when they heard the shot, and he pointed the revolver at them, took all their jewels, and had them empty my pockets. Then he</p>
			<p>made them drag me back into Phyllis’s room, into the closet, and he locked us all in there.</p>
			<p>And, mind you, he don’t say a word all this time, not a word—just makes motions with his gun and his left hand.</p>
			<p>“How bad did he bang your leg?”</p>
			<p>Depends on whether you want to believe me or the doctor. He says it’s nothing much. Just a scratch, he says, but it’s my leg that’s shot, not his!”</p>
			<p>“Did he say anything when you opened the door?” I asked the maid.</p>
			<p>“No, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Did any of you hear him say anything while he was here?”</p>
			<p>None of them had.</p>
			<p>“What happened after he locked you in the closet?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing that we knew about,” Coplin said; “until McBirney and a policeman came and let us out.”</p>
			<p>“Who’s McBirney?”</p>
			<p>“The janitor.”</p>
			<p>“How’d he happen along with a policeman?”</p>
			<p>“He heard the shot, and came upstairs just as the robber was starting down after leaving here. The robber turned around and ran upstairs, then, into an apartment on the seventh floor, and stayed there—keeping the woman who lives there, a Miss Eveleth, quiet with his revolver—until he got a chance to sneak out and get away. He knocked her unconscious before he left, and—and that’s all. McBirney called the police right after he saw the robber, but they got here too late to be any good.”</p>
			<p>“How long were you in the closet?”</p>
			<p>“Ten minutes—maybe fifteen.”</p>
			<p>“What sort of looking man was the robber?”</p>
			<p>“Short and thin and—”</p>
			<p>“How short?”</p>
			<p>“About your height, or maybe shorter.”</p>
			<p>“About five feet five or six, say? What would he weigh?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I don’t know—maybe a hundred and fifteen or twenty. He was kind of puny.”</p>
			<p>“How old?”</p>
			<p>“Not more than twenty-two or three.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, Papa,” Phylis objected; “he was thirty, or near it!”</p>
			<p>“What do you think?” I asked Mrs. Coplin.</p>
			<p>“Twendy-five, I’ll say.”</p>
			<p>“And you?” to the maid.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know exactly, sir; but he wasn’t very old.”</p>
			<p>“Light or dark?”</p>
			<p>“He was light,” Coplin said. “He needed a shave, and his beard was yellowish.”</p>
			<p>“More of a light brown,” Phylis amended.</p>
			<p>“Maybe, but it was light.”</p>
			<p>“What color eyes?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know. He had a cap pulled down over them. They looked dark, but that might have been because they were in the shadow.”</p>
			<p>“How would you describe the part of his face you could see?”</p>
			<p>“Pale, and kind of weak looking—small chin. But you couldn’t see much of his face: he had his coat collar turned up and his cap pulled down.”</p>
			<p>“How was he dressed?”</p>
			<p>“A blue cap pulled down over his eyes, a blue suit, black shoes, and black gloves—silk ones.”</p>
			<p>“Shabby or neat?”</p>
			<p>“Kind of cheap looking clothes, needing pressing, awfully wrinkled.”</p>
			<p>“What sort of gun?”</p>
			<p>Phylis Coplin put in her word ahead of her father.</p>
			<p>“Papa and Hilda keep calling it a revolver, but it was an automatic—a .38.”</p>
			<p>“Would you folks know him if you saw him again?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” they agreed.</p>
			<p>I cleared a space on the bedside table and got out a pencil and sheet of paper.</p>
			<p>“I want a list of what he got, with as thorough a description of each piece as possible, and the</p>
			<p>price you paid for it, wher you bought it, and when.”</p>
			<p>I got the list half an hour later.</p>
			<p>“Do you know the number of Miss Eveleth’s apartment?” I asked as I reached for my hat.</p>
			<p>“702, two floors above.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>I went up there and rang the bell. The door was opened by a girl of twenty-something, whose nose was hidden under adhesive tape. She had nice clear hazel eyes, dark hair, and outdoor athletics written all over her. “Miss Eveleth?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“I’m from the insurance company that insured the Coplin’s jewelry, and I’m looking for information about the robbery.”</p>
			<p>She touched her bandaged nose and smiled ruefully.</p>
			<p>“This is some of my information.”</p>
			<p>“How did it happen?”</p>
			<p>“A penalty of femininity—I forgot to mind my own business. But what you want, I suppose, is what I know about the scoundrel. The door-bell rang a few minutes before nine last night, and when I opened the door he was here. As soon as I got the door open he jabbed a pistol at me, and said:</p>
			<p>“‘Inside, kid!’</p>
			<p>“I let him in with no hesitancy at all: I was quite instantaneous about it, and he kicked the door to behind him.</p>
			<p>“‘Where’s the fire-escape?’ he asked.</p>
			<p>“The fire-escape doesn’t come to any of my windows, and I told him so, but he wouldn’t take my word for it. He drove me ahead of him to each of the windows; but of course he didn’t find his fire-escape, and he got peevish about it, as if it were my fault. I didn’t like some of the things he called me, and he was such a little half-portion of a man, so I tried to take him in hand. But—well, man is still the dominant male so far as I’m concerned. In plain American, he busted me in the nose and left me where I fell. I was dazed, though not quite all the way out, and when I got up he had gone. I ran out into the corridor then, and found some policemen on the stairs. I sobbed out my pathetic little tale to them, and they told me of the Coplin robbery. Two of them came back here with me and searched the apartment. I hadn’t seen him actually leave, and they thought he might be foxy enough or desperate</p>
			<p>enough to jump into a closet and stay there until the coast was clear. But they didn’t find him here.”</p>
			<p>“How long do you think it was after he knocked you down that you ran out into the corridor?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, it couldn’t have been five minutes. Perhaps only half that time.”</p>
			<p>“What did Mr. Robber look like?”</p>
			<p>“Small, not quite so large as I; with a couple of days’ growth of light hair on his face; dressed in shabby blue clothes, with black cloth gloves.”</p>
			<p>“How old?”</p>
			<p>“Not very. His beard was thin, patchy, and he had a boyish face.”</p>
			<p>“Notice his eyes?”</p>
			<p>“Blue. His hair, where it showed under the edge of his cap was a very light yellow, almost white.”</p>
			<p>“What sort of voice?”</p>
			<p>“Very deep bass, though he may have been putting that on.”</p>
			<p>“Know him if you’d see him again?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, indeed!” She put a gentle finger on her bandaged nose. “My nose would know, as the ads say, anyway!”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>From Miss Eveleth’s apartment I went down to the office on the first floor, where I found McBirney, the janitor, and his wife, who managed the apartment building. She was a scrawny little woman with the angular mouth and nose of a nagger; he was big, broad-shouldered; with sandy hair and mustache; good-humored, shiftless red face; and genial eyes of a pale and watery blue.</p>
			<p>He drawled out what he knew of the looting.</p>
			<p>“I was a-fixin’ a spigot on the fourth floor when I heard the shot. I went up to see what was the matter, an’ just as I got far enough up the front stairs to see the Coplins’ door, the</p>
			<p>fella came out. We seen each other at the same time, an’ he aims his gun at me. There’s a lot o’</p>
			<p>things I might of done, but what I did do was to duck down an’ get my head out o’ range. I heard him run upstairs, an’ I got up just in time to see him make the turn between the fifth and sixth</p>
			<p>floors.</p>
			<p>“I didn’t go after him. I didn’t have a gun or nothin’, an’ I figured we had him cooped. A man could get out o’ this buildin’ to the roof of the next from the fourth floor, an’ maybe from the fifth, but not from any above that; an’ the Coplins’ apartment is on the fifth. I figured we had this fella. I could stand in front of the elevator an’ watch both the front an’ back stairs; an’ I rang for the elevator, an’ told Ambrose, the elevator-boy, to give the alarm an’ run outside an’ keep his</p>
			<p>eye on the fire-escape until the police came.</p>
			<p>“The missus came up with my gun in a minute or two, an’ told me that Martinez-Ambrose’s brother, who takes care of the switchboard an’ the front door—was callin’ the police. I could see both stairs plain, an’ the fella didn’t come down them; an’ it wasn’t more’n a few minutes before the police—a whole pack of ’em—came from the Richmond Station. Then we let the Coplins out of the closet where they were, an’ started to search the buildin’. An’ then Miss Eveleth came runnin’ down the stairs, her face an’ dress all bloody an’ told about him bein’ in her apartment; so we were pretty sure we’d land him. But we didn’t. We searched every apartment in the buildin’, but didn’t find hide nor hair of him.”</p>
			<p>“Of course you didn’t!” Mrs. McBirney said unpleasantly. “But if you had—”</p>
			<p>“I know,” the janitor said with the indulgent air of one who has learned to take his pannings as an ordinary part of married life; “if I’d been a hero an’ grabbed him, an’ got myself all mussed up. Well, I ain’t foolish like old man Coplin, gettin’ himself plugged in the foot, or Blanche Eveleth, gettin’ her nose busted. I’m a sensible man that knows when he’s licked; an’ I ain’t jumpin’ at no guns!”</p>
			<p>“No! You’re not doing anything that—”</p>
			<p>This Mr. and Mrs. stuff wasn’t getting me anywhere, so I cut in with a question to the woman.</p>
			<p>“Who is the newest tenant you have?”</p>
			<p>“Mr. and Mrs. Jerald; they came the day before yesterday.”</p>
			<p>“What apartment?”</p>
			<p>“704—next door to Miss Eveleth.”</p>
			<p>“Who are these Jeralds?”</p>
			<p>“They come from Boston. He told me he came out here to open a branch of a manufacturing company. He’s a man of at least fifty, thin and dyspeptic looking.”</p>
			<p>“Just him and his wife?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. She’s poorly too—been in a sanatorium for a year or two.”</p>
			<p>“Who’s the next newest tenant?”</p>
			<p>“Mr. Heaton, in 535. He’s been here a couple of weeks; but he’s down in Los Angeles right now. He went away three days ago, and said he would be gone for ten or twelve days.”</p>
			<p>“What does he look like, and what does he do?”</p>
			<p>“He’s with a theatrical agency, and he’s kind of fat and red-faced.”</p>
			<p>“Who’s the next newest?”</p>
			<p>“Miss Eveleth. She’s been here about a month.”</p>
			<p>“And the next?”</p>
			<p>“The Wageners, in 923. They’ve been here going on two months.”</p>
			<p>“What are they?”</p>
			<p>“He’s a retired real estate agent. The others are his wife and son Jack—a boy of maybe nineteen. I see him with Phylis Coplin a lot.”</p>
			<p>“How long have the Coplins been here?”</p>
			<p>“It’ll be two years next month.”</p>
			<p>I turned from Mrs. McBirney to her husband.</p>
			<p>“Did the police search all these people’s apartments?”</p>
			<p>“Yeah,” he said. “We went into every room, every alcove an’ every closet from cellar to roof.”</p>
			<p>“Did you get a good look at the robber?”</p>
			<p>“Yeah. There’s a light in the hall outside of the Coplins’ door, an’ it was shinin’ full on his face when I saw him.”</p>
			<p>“Could he have been one of your tenants?”</p>
			<p>“No, he couldn’t.”</p>
			<p>“Know him if you saw him again?”</p>
			<p>“You bet.”</p>
			<p>“What did he look like?”</p>
			<p>“A little runt; a light-complected youngster of twenty-three or four in an old blue suit.”</p>
			<p>“Can I get hold of Ambrose and Martinez—the elevator and door boys who were on duty last night—now?”</p>
			<p>The janitor looked at his watch.</p>
			<p>“Yeah. They ought to be on the job now. They come on at two.”</p>
			<p>I went out into the lobby and found them together, matching nickels. They were brothers: slim, bright-eyed Filipino boys. They didn’t add much to my dope.</p>
			<p>Ambrose had come down to the lobby and told his brother to call the police as soon as McBirney had given him his orders, and then he had beat it out the back door to take a plant on the fire-escapes. The fire-escapes ran down the back and one side wall. By standing a little off from the corner of those walls, the Filipino had been able to keep his eyes on both of them, as well as on the back door.</p>
			<p>There was plenty of illumination, he said, and he could see both fire-escapes all the way to the roof, and he had seen nobody on them.</p>
			<p>Martinez had given the police a rap on the phone, and had then watched the front door and the foot of the front stairs. He had seen nothing.</p>
			<p>Neither of them had seen anyone in the building either before or after the Coplins were turned for their jewels who fit the robber’s description.</p>
			<p>I had just finished questioning the Filipinos when the street door opened and two men came in. I knew one of them: Bill Garren, a police detective on the Pawn Shop Detail. The other was a small blond youth all flossy in pleated pants, short, square-shouldered coat, and patent-leather shoes with fawn spats to match his hat and gloves. His face wore a sullen pout. He didn’t seem to like being with Garren.</p>
			<p>“What are you up to around here?” the detective hailed me.</p>
			<p>“The Coplin doings for the insurance company,” I explained.</p>
			<p>“Getting anywhere?” he wanted to know. "About ready to make a pinch," I said, not altogether in earnest and not altogether joking. "The more the merrier," he grinned. "I’ve already made mine." Nodding at the dressy youth. “Come on upstairs with us.”</p>
			<p>The three of us got into the elevator, and Ambrose carried us to the fifth floor. Before pressing the Coplins’ bell, Garren gave me what he had.</p>
			<p>“This lad tried to soak a ring in a Third Street shop a little while ago—an emerald and diamond ring that looks like one of the Coplin lot. Hes’ doing the clam now; he hasn’t said a word—yet. I’m going to show him to these people; then I’m going to take him down to the Hall of Justice and get words out of him—words that fit together in nice sentences and everything!”</p>
			<p>The prisoner looked sullenly at the floor and paid no attention to this threat. Garren rang the bell, and the maid Hilda opened the door. Her eyes widened when she saw the dressy boy, but she didn’t say anything as she led us into the sitting-room, where Mrs. Coplin and her daughter were. They looked up at us.</p>
			<p>“Hello, Jack!” Phylis greeted the prisoner.</p>
			<p>“’Lo, Phyl,” he mumbled, not looking at her.</p>
			<p>“Among friends, huh? Well, what’s the answer? Garren demanded of the girl.</p>
			<p>She put her chin in the air, and although her face turned red, she looked haughtily at the police detective.</p>
			<p>“Would you mind removing your hat?” she</p>
			<p>Bil isn’t a bad bimbo, but he hasn’t any meekness. He answered her by tilting his hat over one eye and turning to her mother.</p>
			<p>“Ever see this lad before?”</p>
			<p>“Why, cerdainly!” Mrs. Coplin exclaimed. “Thad’s Mr. Wagener who lives upsdairs.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Bil; "Mr. Wagener was picked up in a hock-shop trying to get rid of this ring." He fished a gaudy green and white ring from his pocket. “Know it?”</p>
			<p>“Cerdainly!” Mrs. Coplin said, looking at the ring. "It belongs to my Phylis, and the robber—" Her mouth dropped open as she began to understand. “How could Mr. Wagener—?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, how?” Bill repeated.</p>
			<p>The girl stepped between Garren and me, turning her back on him to face me.</p>
			<p>“I can explain everything,” she announced.</p>
			<p>That sounded too much like a movie sub-title to be very promising, but—</p>
			<p>“Go ahead,” I encouraged her.</p>
			<p>“I found that ring in the passageway near the front door after the exciement was over. The robber must have dropped it. I didn’t say anything to Papa and Mama about it, because I thought nobody would ever know the difference, and it was insured, so I thought I might as well sell it and be that much money in. I asked Jack last night if he could sell it for me, and he said eh knew just how to go about it. He didn’t have anything to do with it outside of that; but I did think he’d have sense enough not to try to pawn it right away!”</p>
			<p>She looked scornfully at her accomplice. "See what you’ve done!" she accused him.</p>
			<p>He fidgeted and pouted at his feet.</p>
			<p>“Ha! Ha! Ha!” Bill Garren said sourly. “That’s a nifty! Did you ever hear the one about the two Irishmen that got in the Y.W.C.A. by mistake?”</p>
			<p>She didn’t say whether she had heard it or not.</p>
			<p>“Mrs. Coplin,” I asked; “making allowances for the different clothes, and the unshaven face, could this lad have been the robber?”</p>
			<p>She shook her head with emphasis.</p>
			<p>“No! He could nod be id!”</p>
			<p>“Set your prize down, Bil,” I suggested; “and let’s go over in a corner and whisper things</p>
			<p>at each other.”</p>
			<p>“Right.”</p>
			<p>He dragged a heavy chair to the center of the floor, sat Wagener on it, anchored him there with handcuffs,—not exactly necessary, but Bill was grouchy at not getting his prisoner identified as the robber,—and then he and I stepped out into the pasageway. We could keep an eye on the sitting-room from there without having our low-voiced conversation overheard.</p>
			<p>“This is simple!” I whispered into his big red ear. “There are only five ways to figure the lay. First: Wagener stole the stuff for the Coplins. Second: the Coplins framed the robbery themselves, and got Wagener to peddle it. Third: Wagener and the girl engineered the deal without the old folks being in on it. Fourth: Wagener pulled it on his own hook and the girl is covering him up. Fifth: she told us the truth. None of them explain why your little playmate should have been dumb enough to flash the</p>
			<p>ring downtown this morning; but that can’t be explained by any system. Which of the five do you favor?”</p>
			<p>“I like e’ m all,” he grumbled. “But what I like most is that I’ve got this baby right—got him trying to pass a hot ring. That suits me fine. You do the guessing. I don’t ask for any more than I’ve got.”</p>
			<p>That wasn’t so foolish.</p>
			<p>“It doesn’t irritate me any either,” I agreed. “The way it stands the insurance company can welch on the policies; but I’d like to smoke it out a little further, far enough to put away anybody who has been trying to run a hooligan on the North American. We’ll clean up all we can on this kid, stow him in the can, and then see what further damage we can do.”</p>
			<p>“Al right,” Garren said. “Suppose you get hold of the janitor and that Eveleth woman while I’m showing the boy to old man Coplin, and getting the maid’s opinion.”</p>
			<p>I nodded and went out into the corridor, leaving the door unlocked behind me. I took the elevator to the seventh floor, and told Ambrose to get hold of McBirney and send him to the Coplins’ apartment. Then I rang Blanche Eveleth’s bell.</p>
			<p>“Can you come downstairs for a minute or two?” I asked her. “We’ve a prize who might be your friend of last night.”</p>
			<p>“Will I?” She started toward the stairs with me. “And if he’s the right one, can I pay him back for my battered beauty?”</p>
			<p>“You can,” I promised. “Go as far as you like, so you don’t maul him too badly to stand trial.”</p>
			<p>I took her into the Coplins’ apartment without ringing the bell, and found everybody in Jacob Coplin’s bedroom. A look at Garren’s glum face told me that neither the old man nor the maid had given him a nod on the prisoner.</p>
			<p>I put the finger on Jack Wagener. Disappointment came into Blanche Eveleth’s eyes.</p>
			<p>“You’re wrong,” she said. “That’s not he.”</p>
			<p>Garren scowled at her. It was a pipe that if the Coplins were tied up with young Wagener, they wouldn’t identify him as the robber. Bill had been counting on that identification coming from the two outsiders,—Blanche Eveleth and the janitor,—and now one of them had flopped.</p>
			<p>The other one rang the bell just then, and the maid brought him into the room.</p>
			<p>I pointed at Jack Wagener, who stood beside Garren, staring sullenly at the floor.</p>
			<p>“Know him, McBirney?”</p>
			<p>“Yeah. Mr. Wagener’s son Jack.”</p>
			<p>“Is he the man who shooed you away with a gun last night?”</p>
			<p>McBirney’s watery eyes popped in surprise. "No," he said with decision, and began to look doubtful.</p>
			<p>“In an old suit, cap pulled down, needing a shave—could it have been him?”</p>
			<p>“No‑o‑o,” the janitor drawled; “I don’t think so, though it—You know, now that I come to think about it, there was something familiar about that fella, an’ maybe—By cracky, I think maybe you’re right—though I couldn’t exactly say for sure.”</p>
			<p>“That’ll do!” Garren grunted in disgust.</p>
			<p>An identification of the sort the janitor was giving isn’t worth a damn one way or the other. Even positive and immediate identifications aren’t always the goods. A lot of people who don’t know any better—and some who do, or should—have given circumstantial evidence a bad name. It is misleading sometimes. But for genuine, undiluted, pre-war untrustworthiness, it can’t come within gunshot of human testimony. Take any man you like—unless he is the one in a hundred thousand with a mind trained to keep things straight, and not always even then—get him excited, show him something, give him a few hours to think it over and talk it over, and then ask him about it. It’s dollars to marks that you’ll have a hard time finding any connection between what he saw and what he says he saw. Like this McBirney—another hour, and he’d be ready to gamble his life on Jack Wagener’s being the robber.</p>
			<p>Garren wrapped his fingers around the boy’s arm and started for the door.</p>
			<p>“Where to, Bill?” I asked.</p>
			<p>“Up to talk to his people. Coming along?”</p>
			<p>“Stick around awhile,” I invited. “I’m going to put on a party. But first, tell me, did the coppers who came here when the alarm was turned in do a good job?”</p>
			<p>I didn’t see it," the police detective said. “I didn’t get here until the fireworks were pretty well over, but I understand the boys did all that could be expected of them.”</p>
			<p>I turned to Jacob Coplin. I did my talking to him chiefly because we—his wife and daughter, the maid, the janitor, Blanche Eveleth, Garren and his prisoner, and I—were grouped around the old man’s bed, and by looking at him I could get at least a one-eyed view of everybody else. "Somebody has been kidding me somewhere," I began my speech. “If all the things I’ve been told about this job are right, then so is Prohibition. Your stories don’t fit together, not even almost. Take the bird who stuck you up. He seems to have been pretty well acquainted with your affairs. It might be luck that he hit your apartment at a time when all of your jewelry was on hand, instead of another apartment, or your apartment at another time. But I don’t like luck. I’d rather figure that he knew what he was doing.</p>
			<p>He nicked you for your pretties, and then he galloped up to Miss Eveleth’s apartment. He may have been about to go downstairs when he ran into McBirney, or he may not. Anyway, he went upstairs, into Miss Eveleth’s apartment, looking for a fire-escape. Funny, huh? He knew enough about the place to make a push-over out of the stick-up, but he didn’t know there were no fire-escapes on Miss Eveleth’s side of the building.</p>
			<p>“He didn’t speak to you or to McBirney, but he talked to Miss Eveleth, in a bass voice. A very, very deep voice. Funny, huh? From Miss Eveleth’s apartment he vanished with every exit watched. The police must have been here before he left her apartment, and they would have blocked the outlets first thing, whether McBirney and Ambrose had already done that or not. But he got away. Funny, huh? He wore a wrinkled suit, which might have been taken from a bundle just before he went to work, and he was a small man. Miss Eveleth isn’t a small woman, but she would be a small man. A guy with a suspicious disposition would almost think Blanche Eveleth was the robber.”</p>
			<p>Jacob Coplin, his wife, young Wagener, the janitor and the maid were gaping at me. Garren was sizing up the Eveleth girl with narrowed eyes, while she glared white-hot at me. Phyllis Coplin was looking at me with a contemptuous sort of pity for my feeble-mindedness.</p>
			<p>Bil Garren finished his inspection of the girl and nodded slowly.</p>
			<p>“She could get away with it,” he gave his opinion; “indoors and if she kept her mouth shut.”</p>
			<p>“Exactly,” I said.</p>
			<p>“Exactly my eye!” Phyllis Coplin exploded. “Do you two correspondence-school detectives think we wouldn’t know the difference between a man and a woman dressed in man’s clothes? He</p>
			<p>had a day or two’s growth of hair on his face—real hair, if you know what I mean. Do you think he could have fooled us with false whiskers? This happened, you know; it’s not in a play!”</p>
			<p>The others stopped gaping, and heads bobbed up and down.</p>
			<p>“Phyllis is right,” Jacob Coplin backed up his offspring; “he was a man—no woman dressed like one.”</p>
			<p>His wife, the maid, and the janitor nodded vigorous indorsements.</p>
			<p>But I’m a bullheaded sort of bird when comes to going where the evidence leads. I spun to face Blanche Eveleth.</p>
			<p>“Can you add anything to the occasion?” I asked her.</p>
			<p>She smiled very sweetly at me and shook her head.</p>
			<p>“All right, bum,” I said. “You’re pinched. Let’s go.”</p>
			<p>Then it seemed she could add something to the occasion. She had something to say, quite a few things to say, and they were all about me. They weren’t nice things. In anger her voice was shrill, and just now she was madder than you’d think anybody could get on short notice. I was sorry for that. This job had run along peacefully and gently so far, hadn’t been marred by any rough stuff, had been almost ladylike in every particular; and I had hoped it would go that way to the end. But the more she screamed at me the nastier she got. She didn’t have any words I hadn’t heard before, but she fitted them together in combinations that were new to me. I stood as much of it as I could.</p>
			<p>Then I knocked her over with a punch in the mouth.</p>
			<p>“Here! Here!” Bil Garren yelled, grabbing my arm.</p>
			<p>“Save your strength, Bill,” I advised him, shaking his hand of and going over to yank the Eveleth person up from the floor. “Your gallantry does you credit, and all the like of that, but I think you’ll find Blanche’s real name is Mike or Alec or Rufus.”</p>
			<p>I hauled her or him—which ever you like—to his or her feet and asked it:</p>
			<p>“Feel like telling us about it?”</p>
			<p>For answer I got a snarl.</p>
			<p>“All right,” I said to the others; “in the absence of authoritative information I’ll give you my dope. If Blanche Eveleth could have been the robber except for the beard and the difficulty of a woman passing for a man, why couldn’t the robber have been Blanche Eveleth before and after the robbery by using a—what do you call it—strong depilatory on his face, and a wig? It’s hard for a woman to masquerade as a man, but there are lots of men who can get away with the feminine role. Couldn’t this bird, after renting his apartment as Blanche Eveleth and getting everything lined up, have stayed in his apartment for a couple of days letting his beard grow? Come down and knock the job over? Beat it upstairs, get the hair of his face, and get into his female rig in, say, fifteen minutes? My guess is that he could. And he had fifteen minutes. I don’t know about the smashed nose. Maybe he stumbled going up the stairs and had to twist his plans to account for it; or maybe he smacked himself intentionally.”</p>
			<p>My guesses weren’t far of, though his name in combinations was Fred—Frederick Agnew Rudd. He was known in Toronto, having done a stretch in the Ontario Reformatory as a boy of nineteen, caught shop-lifting in his she-makeup. He wouldn’t come through, and we never turned up his gun or the blue suit, cap, and black gloves, although we found a cavity in his mattress where he had stuffed them out of the police’s sight until later that night, when he could get rid of them. The Coplin sparklers came to light piece by piece when we had plumbers take apart the drains and radiators in apartment 702.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
